[DOC-1310] TA: Potential database inconsistency with very large transactions (#31556)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/stable/releases/techadvisories/ta-30772.md

## Description

A rare race condition can cause rows written in a very large transaction (more than 100K storage records) to overwrite rows written by later, smaller transactions when a specific sequence of SST flush, restart, and compaction events occurs.

This issue was observed during DDL operations in the following sequence:

1. A full-database `ANALYZE` runs on a database whose tables have a total column count greater than or equal to 4300.
1. A restart of the YB-Master process(es) happens before the system catalog is flushed to disk.
1. A DDL statement such as `ALTER TABLE` runs.
1. In the background, a flush and compaction occurs.
1. Another DDL runs. At this point, caches are invalidated, and the inconsistency can cause the following effects:
   - Queries against the altered table can fail in {{<release "2025.2.0.0">}} and later, unless additional [catalog cache preload](../../../best-practices-operations/ysql-catalog-cache-tuning-guide/#preload-additional-system-tables) flags are enabled on YB-TServer.
   - In other cases, all connections to the database can fail.

> If your cluster may have gone through steps 1–4 above (including the background flush and compaction in step 4), run the following query before step 5. It checks each YSQL database for mismatches between `pg_class` and related PostgreSQL system catalogs; a clean result (no rows) means none of the targeted inconsistencies were found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your cluster may have gone through steps 1–4 above but not hit the actual connection failures yet (step 5), you can run the following query to identify this potential failure waiting to happen. The query checks each YSQL database for mismatches between `pg_class` and related PostgreSQL system catalogs; a clean result (no rows) means none of the targeted inconsistencies were found.
```

    - In this example, remaining rows from the full-database `ANALYZE` can include `pg_class` rows that describe important table metadata, such as the number of columns (relnatts) and the relfilenode.
1. Newer transaction commits. A newer transaction can update some of those rows that still reside in the intents memtable. No issues are seen at this point, and reads continue to behave as expected because reads merge pending intents with newer updates. Note that on commit, these newer writes move from intents to regular RocksDB.
    - In this example, an `ALTER TABLE ADD COLUMN` can update the pg_class entry to update the number of columns in the table (relnatts column of pg_class).
1. Flush and compaction occurs. When enough rows accumulate, a flush and compaction can then occur on the regular RocksDB. During compaction, newer updates (such as, from `ALTER TABLE`) that use per-column format are merged into existing packed rows. The resulting packed row can retain an older timestamp after per-column updates are applied.

> 1. Inconsistency becomes visible. After this compaction, the remaining writes from the older large transaction in IntentsDB, still waiting to transfer to regular RocksDB can have the highest timestamp among remaining entries and become visible to readers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Inconsistency becomes visible. After this compaction, the remaining writes from the older large transaction in IntentsDB, still waiting to transfer to regular RocksDB, can have the highest timestamp among remaining entries and become visible to readers.
```
